# learning_Rust

This repository is one for learning the Rust programming language.

## What is Rust?
- Rust is a systems programming language. Systems programming languages are ones where the language is optimized for situations where memory and CPU resources are limited
- Rust can be used to build command line interfaces, build tools, device drivers, databases,  programming languages, web applications, and operating systems

## Why Rust?
- Build safe, fast, and efficient programs
- Understand new patterns of program design


## The Rust Compiler

### Source Code
- Source code is the code humans write. It's meant to be human readable.
- The Rust compiler translates our source code into an executable program (i.e. a Binary) that the computer can understand

- Note that rust versions are usually backwards compatible with one another, so it's a good idea to update the version for the new features that have been added

## Cargo
- Cargo is a command line tool that helps us manage rust projects. It has commands to create projects, run source code, compile source code, and more
- Cargo is the recommended way to create a Rust project. 

- To create a new project in Rust, we go to the terminal in the desired directory and type 'cargo new <project_name>'
    - Doing this creates the project. We notice there's a directory called 'src', which is the source code of the program. Note that the rust code extension is '.rs'
    - The 'target' directory is where our executable will be placed by our compiler when it builds from our source code. 
    - The Cargo.toml file includes information and metadata and metadata about the project. This has "key-value" pairs for the project. 
    - The Cargo.lock file is automatically generated by Cargo when we compile our source code. It should always be included in our source control but NEVER manually edited. It keeps track of dependencies


- Rust projects are called both "packages" and "crates". There are two types of "crates":
    - binary crates: a standalone rust applications whose purpose is to be run by itself in isolation
    - library crates: a crate meant to be used in another rust project
    
## Compiling your program
- "rustc main.rs" in terminal to compile a single file
- "cargo build" will build all of the files. There are 2 modes this can be run in:
    1.) Debug Mode - a fast, unoptimized build. Good for develepment but not final product. This will create a "debug" folder under the "target" directory and the debug executable will be stored there
    2.) Release Mode - longer to compile but optimized for runtime performance. This is done with "cargo build --release
- "cargo clean" will delete the entire "target" folder

## Running the program
- We can run our program using "cargo run". It'll perform both compilation and building

## Checking the program
- "cargo check" is a command that can be used to check the source code for violations. Things like syntax errors, logical errors, etc. It's good to use prior to a run

## Format
We can format our code using rustfmt and cargo fmt. 2 ways that will automatically "prettify" our code:
1.) `rustfmt <rustfile>.rs` -- This is for a single file
2.) `cargo fmt` -- This formats all of our files


## Errors in Rust
- Error messages are not very detailed in rust. We can go to the terminal and type "rustc --explain <Error Number>" to see the errors
